great thank you so much i'm so excited
to be here everyone thanks for joining
us um you know as said uh my name is
bryn i'm the co-founder and ceo partner
stack and today we are going to be
talking about why direct sales they're
just not enough and why the path to sas
growth is indirect
we are in the midst of a great
go-to-market shift and kobe would really
only accelerated it all the executives
can feel it
and everyone knows that you know well 75
percent of folks know that in five years
their business model will be completely
unrecognizable
90 of the executive team actually
believe that the ecosystem is core to
the strategy in navigating all this
disruption
this has not been the case
we have experienced our growth inside of
sas for 15 years off of proven proven
methods and methodologies the idea has
always been to achieve product market
fit and then growth will follow by
adding additional go to market channels
but the reality is you were giving up so
much if you are not solving for
distribution and it's really going to
limit your growth as you scale
you can't maximize distribution through
direct sales channels alone
sas distribution is shifting to indirect
channels
over the next 15 minutes we're going to
discuss three things
how the behavior of the b2b buyer has
changed the difference between direct
and indirect channels
and when and how to incorporate indirect
channels into your growth market or your
go to market strategy without spending a
bunch of money on software
so first of all
you know the b2b buyers spent just 17 of
their entire buying process actually
meeting with vendors they actually spend
more time 22 percent of their time
meeting with internal stakeholders the
vast majority of their time of these b2b
buyers is 45 of their times actually
spent doing their own independent
research on what it takes uh on on their
purchasing decision
and this is a trend that's only
increasing in 2020 the b2b buyer
behavior survey from demand gen report
showed that 68 of upon respondents said
their purchase cycle takes longer than a
year and 77 percent of those respondents
so they spent more time researching on
these purposes and 73
said they're now using more sources for
their research
this shouldn't surprise any of us
but because what we've built and what
got us here unfortunately won't get us
there going forward but before we kind
of dive into that i want to discuss what
a direct channel actually is
you know direct channels are the
machines that we've been working on
perfecting and there's certainly a lot
more that we can get out of them but it
is you know driven largely these these
go to market strategies are built around
internal marketing and sales teams and
they're relying solely on them to
generate interest for the product which
comes through the form of leads and
those leads convert to sales right we
all know them demand gen creating
content to pull in prospects lead gen
converting interested prospects into
leads
and you know inside the sales function
converting these leads into sales
to be clear all of these things are
great and they're actually a requirement
that we need to go in and build in but
this presentation isn't about how you
should replace any of those indirect
channels or those direct channels
but rather how you can work with
indirect channels to enhance your direct
channels
there's some risks on relying solely on
direct channels one they're incredibly
expensive to scale every time that you
want to go and add more revenue you have
to hire a new ae that ae needs more
support from the bdr
they really limit your reach you want to
expand into a new geography new vertical
you're hiring more people that's a lot
of fixed costs that you're carrying to
continue to scale up your direct
channels
and it also limits your credibility if
you're the only one championing your
business your platform your solution
your methodology it's really hard to you
know
have the credibility with the buyers
here you can see the b2b you know where
b2b buyers are actually turning um to do
their research and where the top
information is actually coming for these
b2b buyers in their use case
you want to flip to what's next what
we're really calling out here
is that the majority of the go to market
channels are actually indirect they
greatly outnumber the go to market
channels
so what is an indirect channel what
indirect channel simply put is when a
third party is selling for you it's when
they are promoting your platform they
are sending you leads they are sending
you referrals anytime somebody that is
not inside of your organization that is
not on your team you are working
alongside them that is considered a
partnership
and partnerships really go a long way
the advantages of these indirect
channels is that they allow they're very
affordable to scale they're incredibly
efficient if you want to go global you
do no long you no longer need to go and
hire folks on your team or build an
office um or come up with a unique
strategy rather you can go into
different regions different verticals
and go to the specialists in the space
um and and work alongside them to go in
and you know
reach these new customers it expands
your reach when more publications talk
about your products customers have
incentives to refer their peers and
agencies pitching your products and
their clients you're going to get
immediate access to these audiences
which you never would have otherwise
because you can actually meet these
customers where they want to be met
and lastly it really expands your
credibility indirect is one of the best
ways to get into enterprise customers
they're one of the best ways to manage
long sale cycles because these partners
have advantage of trust that they've
already built with these customers that
you're trying to meet that you're trying
to meet and these buyers are
increasingly doing their own research
and defining their own needs before
talking to providers
indirect and these these channel experts
they're the best way for you to get in
there before decisions and conversations
are even happening
there are three types of partners
there's an affiliate partner which is
someone that's really a content creator
a publication somebody that's using
links to drive you top of funnel traffic
there are referral partners and these
could be anyone from customers to
consultants that are sending you leads
that are often
converted and managed by your sales team
to go and be closed and then lastly
there are reseller partners and these
reseller partners can be anyone from
individuals to some of the world's
largest software and you know
distributors out there
and these people are the folks that are
taking your product and doing the full
cycle sale they're actually even
servicing your customer often in some
cases your customer may not even know
that they're using your product but
which but they're incredibly valuable
we call this the partnerships pyramid
and as you climb the pyramid
the conversation
you know the pyramid is very interesting
at the bottom of the pyramid is the
simplest form of partnership which is
the affiliate partnership and as you
climb up the pyramid things become more
and more complicated the other thing
that changes is that the conversion rate
actually drops
increases as you go up but the volume
decreases on the affiliate group you're
going to have a lot of affiliate
partners driving you lots of traffic but
they might not be as highly qualified
the referral group um you know you're
gonna have fewer fewer um referrals
coming in but they'll be much more
qualified and the reseller that's really
the like the pinnacle program that you
want to be going and chasing after
my point here is that sas businesses
should scale using the pyramid bottom to
top and we'll get into why
at the bottom
the biggest reason why partnerships fail
is because they never get off the ground
and at the bottom you have an affiliate
program affiliate programs are very easy
to launch
it's really just hanging a sign on your
door saying that you're open for
business it's going out and talking to
people that are talking about products
and software in your space
getting started with affiliates um what
you want to be doing is you want to be
looking at people that are linking back
to you and reach out to them directly
you want to be building an inbound
function that's going to help you
collect affiliates that are coming onto
your page and then you want to be
responding to these requests as fast as
possible unbounce as an example received
over 300 requests from their partners
over the years because before even
launching their program
then you have referral partners referral
partners are going to refer highly
qualified leads to you directly and your
sales teams are going to go in and take
and close them this includes everything
from consultants to agencies and this is
about building one-on-one connections
between you and your referral partner
the trust and credibility matters a lot
here
getting started with these referral
partners can be tricky don't over make
your program
you need to figure out who these
agencies are you need to build a partner
persona to figure out how you're going
to go and acquire them you need to
understand their needs and what sort of
training and enablement they need in
order to go and promote your pro your
partner some really interesting things
that you can do like building co-branded
landing pages where these partners can
quickly refer deals to you and get up
off the ground the trick again don't
over complicate the referral partnership
get it up get it launched and and scale
it
and then lastly there's the reseller
partners and this is where things get
very tricky
these reseller partners are owning the
entire sales process so um you know they
are they're including these value-added
resellers managed service providers and
um they are the ones that help implement
software across these different
organizations
different organizations
and
if
if you want to reach enterprise
customers it's necessary that you tap
and learn how to work with reseller
partners
reseller partners are incredibly
challenging to start working with
because you need to build out thorough
um you know training and enablement
resources you need to build one-on-one
connections you need to be
creating specific commercial terms and
agreements with everyone it's why we
recommend strongly that you start at the
bottom of the pyramid because reseller
partnerships can take you know years to
roll out effectively what matters most
is that you're scaling something that
you can ultimately show an roi on
these partner types depend on like
ultimately what you're trying to go in
what what we're really showing here is
that affiliate partners you're gonna
have a lot of partners producing very
little on reseller and generally it's
gonna be a low acv um and there's gonna
be very little effort for you to go and
start seeing roi most important is going
to happen very quickly the referral
partners there's there's a you need a
dedicated team to it um this dedicated
team um should be able to these referral
partners should be able to bring in a
larger acv and the resources required
really hit around some training at
enablement and lastly on the reseller
side you're not going to have many
partners here um and they're going to be
incredibly high touch but they should
pay off um big time the challenge with
reseller partners is as a channel it's
incredibly challenging to go in and
build because there's a lot of resources
required
before you get going on building an
indirect channel the first thing that
you have to answer to yours or ask
yourself is do you actually have product
market fit
product market fit is a requirement
before doing any type of indirect
channel building whether that's
affiliate referral or reseller if you
can't sell your product a third party
will never be able to sell your product
a second question that you should
already ask yourself that you should ask
yourself is do your customers already
refer your products without incentives
if they're referring your product
more if they're referring clients to you
without any incentives then a an
indirect channel should only enhance
this you know inbound leads that you'll
start building out so turn to your
customers figure out are there people
reaching out to you looking to sell your
product because if there are you're
primed to build an indirect channel
and then you need to ask yourself do you
actually have assets that you can
repurpose for these partners one of the
best areas to turn to look for these
assets is the training materials that
you're providing your marketing team
your sales team and anybody who joins
your organization right
when you're thinking you're going after
these referral and reseller partners
it's incredibly important that they know
how to sell your product what your value
proposition is who you going to target
you can't expect someone to sell your
product if you're not equipping them and
most importantly if you equip them
correctly they will sell your product
you know on brand
and the last question you should really
be asking yourself is is there someone
in your org who can manage the indirect
channel
this is not something you do part-time
indirect channels should job should
drive upwards and more than 30 of all
revenue you can't expect to increase 30
incremental you can't
expect to add thirty percent incremental
revenue um as a side project you need
dedicated teams and resources in order
to make this happen um it's the number
one mistake we see folks going to do if
you're looking to turn on the indirect
channel
you've got to put some bodies behind it
because ultimately you know it's an
incredibly scale a scalable platform an
incredibly scalable program but if you
are unwilling to resource it you will
get nowhere
so here are the takeaways from the chat
indirect channels complement your direct
channels and they're very low risk to
launch
this is not something that you need to
invest tens of millions of dollars
before you start seeing an roi but there
is a way to build it and that's
deliberately moving up the pyramid
b2b buyers are looking to experts
outside of your organization so they can
understand how to best use your product
and in some instances it's actually how
to use your product alongside multiple
products some things that you may not
even are aware of
most sas companies are ready to launch
at least one partner program you just
need to get product market fit and
um you know at some point you will
actually be able to launch multiple
programs and scale up the partner
pyramid from affiliate to referral to
reseller but in order to do so you have
to invest the resources and you have to
know how long it's going to take to go
on and pay off
so thank you so much thanks for thanks
for having me i'm definitely interested
in going through some questions
hi brynn we have one question here from
james how important are performance
targets and criteria and exclusivity in
partner relationships
yeah i mean i think it depends on
i think it actually it always depends um
if you're launching an early program um
you want to make sure that you know your
terms of service are very clear with
what you expect out of your your
partners but as your program matures you
want to start developing you know
performance targets um you know we work
with partners our own partner program um
they actually have performance targets
and those performance targets are
generally in that referral and mostly in
the reseller bucket but don't over
optimize or don't over to optimize it
from the beginning just get it launched
and then see how things are performing
afterwards
all right so we are right on time thank
you so much brent for that great
presentation um and i hope you all enjoy
the rest of sester we have some great
sessions today thank you so much
[Music]
you